On Sunday, February the 26th, I traveled to Port-Aprince for the branch visit that was
warmly welcomed by many of the Bethel family of 54 members.
The branch office supervises the preaching work for more than 20,000 publishers.
Although Haiti has faced economic challenges and suffered recent natural disasters, our
brothers are positive and focus their attention on helping others to identify our
scriptural hope. The Haitian people show a keen interest in the word of God. Our
brothers averaged more than 42,000 Bible studies each month and Haiti enjoyed a
memorial attendance of more than 86,000 in 2016. This is four times more than the
number of publishers in the branch territory. The brothers love to use the
videos in the ministry. This is made possible by the Haiti audio video teams
translating the videos into their native language. While many in Haiti speak
French, the common language of the people in general is Haitian Creole. Creole is
said to be an expressive language that combines French words with the grammar of
West African languages. The number of publishers in Haiti has quadrupled since
a start of Creole translation back in 1987. The complete New World
translation Bible was released in Creole in 2015. We met with the translation
team to commend them for the good work they do. We reminded them of the many
positive results in the field ministry that have taken place since translating
the Bible and our literature in Creole. As an example, Merlene is a vendor of
fruits and vegetables who was asked if she would supply some of her produce to
Bethel. Although she was very impressed the first time she arrived at the
Bethel property, she said she found the large steel gate to be intimidating. So
she prayed to God to protect her while in the yard at Bethel. The brothers
dealt kindly with her when she made her deliveries on Monday each week. One of
the brothers from the kitchen told her that maybe someday she too would become one
of Jehovah's Witnesses. She accepted an invitation to the memorial and despite
some personal challenges such as not being able to read well, she began to attend
some congregation meetings. Merlene could see the difference between Jehovah's
loving people and those in her church. A study was started with her and she
progressed to the point of baptism in 2009. Since then, she has worked
diligently to teach the truth to her children with good results. Her oldest son
graduated from the School for Kingdom Evangelizers and serves as an elder in
temporary special pioneer. Recently, another for sons was appointed
ministerial servant and the four other children are unbaptized publishers.
Having our literature in Creole and with the help of her children, she has
improved her reading. She now benefits from reading the Bible in Creole, the
language of her heart. Good results are beginning to be seen in the field of
American Sign Language, which is now used in Haiti. There are now 87 deaf
publishers and four ASL congregations and eight groups. The congregation here
is singing praises to Jehovah. Even our little sisters learning to do this.
This brother showed us the effort he puts forth to prepare for a Bible reading.
A special program for Haiti was held on Saturday morning at the Open Air
Assembly Hall on the Branch Property. A total of 1,405 were in attendance. We
were very encouraged to see the group of our brothers who benefited from the
program in American Sign Language. The program was recorded and presented at
Kingdom Halls throughout the country later that same day and also in Sunday to
combined audience of 34,812. We felt a little sad to leave the
brothers on Sunday morning for a drive of about six hours or so to the
Dominican Republic where the second branch visit. In route we traveled
through some semi-arid areas to the border between the two countries. The
terrain varied greatly as we drove through small mountains, rich agricultural
regions, and along the Caribbean Sea. We took the opportunity to witness to some
individuals at the border and at various checkpoints leaving literature along
the way. Upon entering the city of Santo Domingo, we quickly identified the
large JW.org sign at the branch office. We were enthusiastically greeted by
many of the 73 Bethel family members. Although the preaching work is done
primarily in Spanish, our brothers are expanding their ministry to reach the
language of the hearts of many peoples and cultures. There are now five Haitian
Creole circuits in the branch territory, 26 American Sign Language
congregations, and other congregations or groups in Russian, Chinese, Italian,
and French. We joined a group of brothers and sisters in the field ministry in
the Chinatown District of Santo Domingo. Our group gave a witness to both Spanish
and Chinese-speaking people on the streets, most of whom respectfully listened to
our message. A Bethel brother, Evan, told us of the challenge he faced when
learning the truth. I was finishing medical school while serving in the
Dominican Army. By then, I had been serving for six years. At my aunt's home, I
found the revelation book. It made such an impact on me that I stole it.
And read it all on my own. There's a vision in Chapter 6 of Revelation where
the sixth seals open and the skies darken and the army commanders hide in caves.
That vision impressed me so much that I decided to serve Jehovah. That meant
that I would have to leave the army because witnesses are neutral. I quickly
decided to talk to my immediate commander to ask him to please discharge me
from the army. However, he rejected my request and said,
no, you have served in the army for six years. You have to stay in the army. I was
not concerned because I could still appeal to the colonel and charge of personnel.
However, my request for resignation was rejected again. I left and went to the
hallway. I prayed to Jehovah. I want to serve you. What should I do? Help me
find a way out of this. When I opened my eyes, another army officer approached
and greeted me using my name. I still don't know who he is. He asked me,
what do you need? I explained that I wanted to resign in order to become a
Jehovah's Witness. He said, don't worry, give me your papers. I'm the colonel's
assistant. Within 20 minutes, my discharge papers were ready and approved. In a
short period of time, I became a publisher and I got baptized as one of Jehovah's
Witnesses. At this time, I've been serving happily and Bethel for over 11 years
with my wife, Hyell. Without a doubt, Jehovah helps those who put their
complete trust in him. The branch is blessed to have as part of their Bethel
family, some who had been longtime missionaries. I enjoyed a very pleasant
visit with five of the senior members of this group, three of whom are 98
years of age. Brother William Dingman is at the first class of Gillian. His wife
Estelle attended the 12th class. Thelma Crites is also the 12th class. Barbara
Parker's of the 42nd class. And Helen Ferrari attended the 2nd class of
Gillian. To illustrate the length of their full-time service is the fact that
Sister Ferrari is among those who stood up to identify themselves as part of the
great multitude at the 1935 convention in Washington DC. The average age of
this group is 94. Even more impressive is that their average years of full-time
service is 73. These faithful ones set a fine example continuing to be active in
the ministry, taking into account their ages and health limitations. Such
loyal servants of Jehovah are considered spiritual treasures wherever they
serve. I still have one study so far, although my sight doesn't allow me to do too
much, but I try. My legs aren't so good for walking, so I will be around. In all of
my life I would consider the life that I have spent as a missionary and in
Dominican Republic as well. It's a wonderful life. I couldn't have chosen
Barbara Companion, and also a better life than to be preaching the message of
the good news of the kingdom. The Dominican Republic Bethel family considers
it a privilege to have a share in providing care for such faithful ones. On Sunday
March the 12th, a special program was held at the open air assembly hall adjacent
to the branch office. A total of three thousand and fifty benefited from the
spiritual program in Christian association. The visits to the Dominican Republic
and Haiti branches proved to be an encouragement and a spiritual blessing to
all who participated in them.